---
layout: post
title: Practical OO Design in Ruby, An Agile Primer, 2
---

Enforce Single Responsibility Everywhere. This is one of the most well-known Object Oriented design principles that Sandi 
advocates in the 1st chapter of her book. Starting in Chapter 2, Sandi explains the principle in depth and presents several 
examples. Classes and methods should be created with a single responsibility. Having a single responsibility makes them easy 
to change and easy to reuse. All the same design techniques work; ask them questions about what they do and try to describe their 
responsibilities in a single sentence. Let us check out an example.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def diameters
  wheels.collect { |wheel|
    wheel.rim + (wheel.tire * 2)}
end
{% endhighlight %}

The method above has two responsibilites: it iterates over the wheels and it calculates the diameter of each wheel. Instead, 
we should simplify the code by separating it into two methods, each with one responsibility.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
def diameters
  wheels.collect { |wheel| diameter(wheel) }
end

def diameter(wheel)
  wheel.rim + (wheel.tire * 2)
end
{% endhighlight %}

The refactoring above moves the calculation of a single wheel's diameter into its own method, thus enforcing the single  
responsibility priniciple. The impact of a single refactoring like this is small, but the cumulative effect of this coding 
style is huge. Methods that have a single responsibility confer the following benefits: exposes previously hidden qualities; 
avoids the need for comments; encourages reuse; are easy to move to another class. 

Sandi declares that methods with a single responsibility avoid the need for comments. I had to re-read that a couple of times 
and had a WTF? moment. I do not think Sandi is advocating the elimination of all comments. I think she is advocating the elimination 
of comments inside methods. The book states precisely: "If a bit of code inside a method needs a comment, extract that bit into a 
separate method." Hopefully she can clarify this somewhere in the following chapters. This aside, I have really enjoyed reading chapter 
2 of her textbook, and I will begin using single responsibility in my methods and classes. Thanks for reading.




