---
layout: post
title: One Year
---

Today is a kind of special day. A year ago today, I embarked on my web development learning journey. Exactly one year 
ago today, I began learning Ruby and Ruby on Rails. I have covered a lot of ground, and I am confident that if I were to 
go out and look for a Ruby on Rails job, I could obtain one. The only thing I would need to do is prepare a few weeks for 
the interview process(whiteboard prep, review some common coding challenges, etc.). However, my goal from the beginning of 
this whole journey was to become an independent developer. The goal was to build web apps and other software that generates 
money to pay the bills. I am still not at that point, yet. I predict that it will be another 14 months until I have built 
software and web apps that pay the bills. This is a very blind estimate that I have arrived at simply by extrapolating based on 
my learning trajectory over the past year. Over the course of the past year, I have built some practice web apps along the way, as 
well as other software products, such as games and IoT. These have been great learning experiences. Like anything else, in order to 
become a successful independent developer, practice will eventually lead to mastery. Currently, I am working on the first "real" 
web app that I plan to promote. It is an e-commerce site. I am building it with Rails/SQLite3/Bootstrap. After that is done, 
there are a few other ideas in my head that I may pursue. I have thought about simple 3d game development, and hosting the games on 
a website, and generating income through ads. I am not sure yet. Anyway, that is my rant for today. 
