---
layout: post
title: Tealeaf Academy Course 3 Start
---

I have recently started Tealeaf Academy's 3rd and final course in their Ruby on Rails online bootcamp program. The instructors pointed out multiple times that this course makes up roughly 60% of the entire curriculum and exposes students to topics that are typically only encountered after years of professional Rails experience. This is a bit daunting because I thought the first two courses were packed with a lot of content and each previous course was very challenging. Several differences between the third course vs. courses 1&2 make themselves apparent immediately.

First of all, Chris Lee is no longer the instructor. The new instructor is Kevin Wang and, much like Chris, Kevin is a former IBM Engineer. Kevin is also a former Rocketeer at Hashrocket, a premier Ruby on Rails dev shop, so I have no doubt that Kevin knows 100% what he is doing and is more than qualified to be teaching Ruby on Rails. Another difference is that Kevin conducts his lectures/pair programming sessions using the VIM text editor. It is apparent that he is able to save time here and there by using VIM and I suspect the course is presented with VIM to encourage students to adopt VIM to increase productivity. Also, right off the bat, students are given the assignment to learn HAML. Much like with the switch to VIM, the switch from ERB templating to HAML templating stems from the fact that HAML increases developer productivity. Check out the comparison below.

=====ERB=====

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
<html>
  <head>
    <title>ERB Templating Example</title>
  </head>
  <body>This is an example of ERB</body>
</html>
{% endhighlight %}

=====HAML=====

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
%html
  %head
    %title HAML Templating Example
  %body This is an example of HAML
{% endhighlight %}

The example above shows identical templating examples in each ERB and HAML. Clearly, HAML saves you some time by foregoing closing tags. Whether or not it is more aesthetically organized is a matter of opinion. The final difference between courses 1&2 vs course 3 is the lenght of the lectures. In course 1&2, the lectures were mostly between 30-50 minutes long. In course 3, the lectures tend to stay under 15 minutes. I have only completed the precourse work and part of week 1, so obviously I have not seen all the lectures, but I suspect future lectures will also be under 15 minutes. I look forward to the rest of the course and all that I will learn.
