---
layout: post
title: Practical OO Design in Ruby An Agile Primer ch3
---

Managing Dependencies

This chapter is about getting access to behavior when that behavior is implemented in other objects. First we have to begin by understanding dependencies. An object depends on another object if, when one object changes, the other might be forced to change in turn. Put another way, an object has a dependency when it knows: 1) The name of another class 2) The name of a message that it intends to send to someone other than self 3) The arguments that a message requires 4) The order of those arguments. Let's see this in action.

{% highlight ruby linenos %}
class Gear
  attr_reader :chainring, :cog, :rim, :tire
  
  def initialize(chainring, cog, rim, tire)
    @chainring = chainring
    @cog = cog
    @rim = rim
    @tire = tire
  end
  
  def gear_inches
    ratio * Wheel.new(rim, tire).diameter
  end
  
  def ratio
    chainring / cog.to_f
  end
end

class Wheel
  attr_reader :rim, :tire
  
  def initialize(rim, tire)
    @rim = rim
    @tire = tire
  end
  
  def diameter
    rim + (tire * 2)
  end
end

Gear.new(52, 11, 26, 1.5).gear_inches
{% endhighlight %}

The example above has all four dependencies mentioned earlier. Gear expect a class named Wheel to exist. Gear expects a Wheel instance to respond to diameter. Gear knows that Wheel.new requires a rim and tire. Gear knows the first argument to Wheel.new should be rim, and the second to be tire. Our design challenge is to manage dependencies so that each class has the fewest possible; a class should know just enough to do its job and not one 
thing more. 

I will add to this post upon completion of reading the chapter.



