---
layout: post
title: First Experience With Virtual Reality
---

This week I purchased the Samsung Gear VR Innovator Edition. I first found out about it while reading an article online and I was 
very surprised that I could buy a VR set for only $100 (if you already own a Galaxy S6 or Note 5). After reading reviews and watching 
demos on youtube, I decided to buy one. I spent almost the entire day after Thanksgiving playing with it. It was a pretty awesome experience. 
VR is definitely way more immersive than any other current mode of computing. I have not purchased any apps or played games on it yet. So far, 
I have only tried the Netflix app(free), and watched various videos in VR mode, such as the Democratic and Republican Presidential Debates, a showing 
of SNL, and the Cirque de Soleil Zarkana clip. With regards to the Samsung Gear, VR videos can often times make you feel as if you were 
present at the event, assuming the video work is done right. Of all the videos I watched, Cirque de Soleil Zarkana was absolutely freaking 
amazing in my opinion. The VR video was done right. It definitely makes you feel present at the event, and it is a very beautiful show. I did 
not feel this as much with the other videos. I do not know how good the Oculus Rift is, which is set to be released in Q1 2016, but I read that
it is a few notches above the Gear VR. Even so, I believe we are still a few years away from very high quality VR experiences. I definitely want to be 
able to walk around the setting in a VR video. I think it will be a long time until this particular item is accomplished. Thinking about what would be required (maybe 
having a camera take the 360 degree video of every square inch in a setting seems like a tough task) I am left to conclude that we will not be seeing this feature any 
time soon. So, what are some possible improvements aside from the aforementioned? In my opinion, the resolution is still too low. If you look hard enough, you 
can count individual pixels in VR videos. Another possibility is for the VR set to be able to adjust to your eye vision. 
I wear a -2.0 prescription in both eyes, and the adjuster at the top of the set does not help at all. Thus, a lot of things are a bit blurry. Also, the VR set is a huge drain 
of power. By my estimation, the Galaxy S6 fully charged can last no longer than 3.5 hours in VR mode. This is given that my GS6 is only 3 months old, 
and thus has a very good battery with most of its cycles still available. The 3.5 hour time will surely decrease slowly over time. Also, the VR video files are HUGE. For example, 
the Cirque de Soleil Zarkana clip is about 3 minutes long, and the file is 250 MegaBytes large. Imagine how much memory a few seasons of Game of Thrones/other shows would require. Even with multiple free 
cloud storage accounts, you may have run out of free storage space. Lastly, on the Innovator Edition, condensation on the goggles is a huge 
problem. It is very annoying having to take it off several times to wipe down the inside. However, I read that the newer edition has a fan which solves this problem. 
Overall, I really enjoyed the VR experience and I am glad I made the purchase. Even if I did not have a GS6, I think I would be willing to pay about $200 for a VR set of this 
quality. If the Oculus does not have the condensation problem, and it is indeed "a few notches above" the Gear VR, I can definitely see myself 
dishing out the $300-500 it is estimated to be sold at next year. 
