---
layout: post
title: Air Quality Monitoring
---

I have another project in the works once I complete the smart blinds. This aim of this new project is to monitor the air quality of Monterrey. There are 5 or 6 air quality monitoring stations in the metro area of Monterrey. Considering there are almost 5 million people in the metro area, that means there is roughly one monitoring station per 1,000,000 people. That is a very low resolution, and does not give an accurate statistical picture of the air quality in Monterrey. I believe this is a big problem in how the world monitors air quality. The number of air quality monitoring stations per capita is similar all throughout the world. The biggest reason why the resolution is so poor is because air quality monitoring stations are very expensive. One monitoring station costs $40,000 to >$100,000 depending on the pollutants monitored. That cost is only the cost associated with the equipment. It does not include any human labor for installation/operation/maintenance/data management. However, I believe that the way we monitor air quality is set to be disrupted in the near future(5 to 15 years?). The main reason is that the cost of sensors have come down significantly in recent years.

The Environmental Engineering class of 2014 at MIT implemented an air quality monitoring project at their campus and the cost of one of their monitoring stations was like 1/100 the price of the stations currently used to monitor our air quality. So, what is preventing us from switching our methods? The monitoring methods need to be EPA approved. Currently, these low cost sensors are not approved to be used in monitoring projects by the EPA. I hope the EPA has already started the process of testing these sensors as candidates to be used in monitoring applications. These approval processes take years, so hopefully they have gotten started. Also, there were a couple of things missing in the MIT class project. I skimmed over their Design report and noticed that quality control checks were not being performed on a regular basis. EPA requires a zero check/upper span check/precision check each to be performed at least once every two weeks. Also, for calibration purposes, the class performed the calibrations in air-tight chambers using the proper equipment but they did not perform a leak check to ensure that their calibration chamber really was air-tight.

I plan to install and operate one of these air quality monitoring stations in Monterrey in the near future after I complete my smart blinds project. I will be monitoring NO2/O3/SO2/ and perhaps PM as well. I will ensure that I perform quality control checks on a regular basis and that my calibration chamber passes a leak check. At this point I am not sure how I will implement quality control checks. There are several options that come to mind and I will have to compare them once I get there. The leak check is trivial. I will get a chamber, and using a pump and teflon tubing, I will pressurize the chamber to some pressure above atmospheric pressure that will be monitored with a pressure gauge. Then, I will stop pumping air in and allow the chamber to sit. After a few minutes, I will check to make sure the pressure has not dropped below a threshold that is specified by the EPA. Once I get closer to purchasing the equipment, I will also be sure to more thoroughly read the MIT class Design project to determine other areas of improvement.

Lastly, I plan to make this data freely available to the citizens of Monterrey via web and mobile phone applications. This project is at least 6 months from implementation.
